# Blind copy trainer

I've run across the following article on the web: [Want to Become a Better
Writer? Copy the Work of Others!][copy] It's quite an interesting read. I'm
especially interested in Stevenson's method. It says he could read a passage
twice and replicate it perfectly from memory.

Good memory sounds like a very useful trait to have. Especially for me because I
don't really use code completion so for longer function and variable names I
have to flip back and forth to get the spelling right. I'd rather improve my
memory and spelling correctness than start using code completion and spell
checkers in every corner of my life. Unfortunately I've never found a good way
to improve it. I've read/tried things like [method of loci][loci] or [Brain
Workshop][workshop] but I wasn't really convinced that these things would
improve my day to day memory. Also, I'd imagine the latter gets quite boring
after a while.

I've vaguely noticed that my spelling of the harder words improves when I
usually look it up how to spell it, but it doesn't if I spell it incorrectly and
then use the spell checker to correct it. I haven't realized this until I came
around the idea of copying based on the article. One would think just firing up
a typing speed trainer and using it would help it, right? I'm sure it does but
doing just that gets boring after a while. Whenever I practiced I've just zoned
out, and all I could see the words in isolation. It became a chore. It might
help your typing speed but that will improve slower and slower over time so I
have doubts about the worthiness of the invested time. Also, because I'm not
even conscious, the spelling of the hard to spell words don't really stick.
Whenever I leave a typo in it, the application beeps, I press backspace and
correct the wrong letters -- I'm not really forced to practice typing the full
word correctly either.

But what about the case where you still have to copy the sentences but you need
to copy them from memory? If the sentences are long enough, you will need to
read them, understand them, otherwise you won't able to reconstruct it. I think
you can't really do this unconsciously, or if you can, the sentences/paragraphs
are too short. And ideally whenever you make a mistake, you will need to start
over. This is to train myself to be able write long sentences without a single
error which is something I still fail at.

Another possible upside if you do this is that it not only improves your memory
and spelling, but it actually improves your writing skills and vocabulary. I
often struggle how should I put a thought into proper English sentences and
maybe this would help me in that area as well. And perhaps I could also learn
where to put the commas and how to start new sentences without "and", "but",
"also" and "this".

This is something I'd like to try but I haven't found any application which
would work exactly as above, so I hacked a little javascript app to try it. You
need to put the text into it but I've pre-filled it with a few short texts to
test on. 

[copy]: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2014/03/26/want-to-become-a-better-writer-copy-the-work-of-others/
[loci]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_loci
[workshop]: http://brainworkshop.sourceforge.net/
